### Video 1 covers:
- Concatenation of lists: Set end node next pointer to listpointer of other added list.

- Reversal of lists

    - Method 1: Create a new list in the correct order. Can lead to memory leaking.

    - Method 2: Swap the position of nodes in pairs, working towards the center. Requires many traversals. Not efficient.

    - Method 3: Using 3 temp pointers, swap the next pointers within the nodes to point backwards, one at a time.

- Split: Find target node and set next pointer to null. Set new listpointer to next node.

- Insert: Find target node. Make `newNode->next = targetNode->next`. Then `targetNode->next = newNode`.

- Remove nth node: Find targetNode. `previousNode->next = current->next`. Then `delete targetNode`

- Circular lists: To prevent infinate traversal of the list, set end condition to `!= firstNode->next`

  
Memory leaking : When lists (or other data structures) are left in memory with no pointer to them. This means the computer still allocates that memory to the data but it cannot be reached by anything.

### Video 2 covers:

- Doubly linked lists: each node has previous and next pointers. Has head and tail list pointers

- Adding to tail/head: same but swap previous/next as needed.

- Printing/traversing a list: is same as vid 1 but can be done from either end, meaning no reversal of the list needed.

Static storage:
- fixed size
- simple
- fast

Dynamic storage:
- can grow/shrink as needed.
- always exactly the right size
- sequential access (slow)
- must be accessed via a function
- more complicated
