- Is both a platform and a language.
- All Java programs must use at least 1 class.
- Classes may only have one super class.
- Java API has libraries with packages of interfaces and classes.
- Aim is to be simple, object-oriented language
- Shares syntax is C & C++

### Design goals of Java

- Robust and secure: Does security checks during run and compile time.
- Neutral architecture & portable: able to run on multiple systems and platforms using the same processes. High performance, fast as , or faster than low level language programs.
- Interpreted, threaded and dynamic: Machine works the code as compiled, not at run time, allowing it to be more dynamic. Multi-threading allows it to do more than one thing at the same time.
- Portability: Program is compiled not on the system but into a middle system called *Java bytecode*, kind of like a virtual machine. This is then run on the virtual machine which speaks to the physical system. This can also be called *Just-In-Time Compilation*.

### Compile and Run a program from the CLI  

  1. Go to the parent folder containing the program file.
  2. Compile the program: `javac MyJavaProgram.java` (Will create a class file in the same folder as program)
  3. Run the program: `java MyJavaProgram.java` (will output to CLI)

#### Common errors

| Error                                      | Check                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `error: file not found`                    | Check you are in parent folder and the file name is the same as class name in program                                          |
| `java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError`           | You have run the .class file not the program file. Try with no extension as you are running the class from within the program. |
| `java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: main`        | Make sure the class has a main method/function                                                                                 |
| `java.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsExecption` | The program needs an argument to run.                                                                                          |
  
#### Example of simple Java program
```
package OOP.Week1code;
public class MyJavaProgram {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("Hello, World!");
	}
```

        package OOP.Week1code;

Package is a folder that groups together similar things. Essentially, it is the file path from the project root folder. It also indicates where the .class file will be made.

        public class MyJavaProgram

`public` allows all other classes to call on this class. If no package is specified it will be automatically put into the default package.

The name of the program must be the same as the file name. Use PascalCase
  
        {
            public static void main(String[] args)

Every program must have a main function in it. This is what will start, guide and end the program.
  
This line must have this structure for it to be read by the machine first.

`static` means this method belongs to the class and not the individual instances of the class. This means that the program can call on this method without having to create a new .class each time.

`String[]` is necessary as this creates the pattern that the Java VM looks for. Using a different type is called overloading.

`args` can be defined but this is the default value. If the program ever calls on this then the program will not run unless a string is passed into the program at the time it is called. I.e., `java MyProgram "String goes here"`

            {
                System.out.println("Hello, World!");
            }
        }
        
`System.out.println` will print any statement or operation within the brackets to the CLI. On a new line.

`System.out.print` will do the same as `println` but will concatenate the results.
