Pointers: a variable that gives the address of another variable.

```
int var = 48;
int * ptr = &var;
```

Here,
- the value of var is 48.
- ptr is giving the address of var.
- \*ptr indicates that ptr is an address and if called will give the value at that address. If only ptr is called than the address is gi(which is the same as calling &var).

Note: You cannot change the value of the pointer by calling *ptr and reassigning it. Co-pilot explains it like this:

        In C++, a pointer (ptr) holds the address of a variable. When you use *ptr, you are dereferencing the pointer, which means you are accessing the value stored at the address ptr is pointing to.
         To change the address that ptr is pointing to, you need to modify the pointer itself, not the value it points to. This is where *&ptr comes into play:
        - *ptr: Dereferences the pointer, giving you access to the value at the address stored in ptr.
        - *&ptr: This combination is a bit tricky. &ptr gives you the address of the pointer itself (i.e., a pointer to the pointer). When you dereference this (*(&ptr)), you get back the original pointer ptr.

So, in my understanding,
- when you call on a pointer, you must indicate it's a pointer (\*ptr),
- and it will contiue to push forward to the address it points to, returning the value at that address.
- &ptr gives you the address of the pointer.
- \*&ptr takes away the impetus to direct, it allows you to access the value held in the variable ptr via the address of ptr.

#### . vs. ->

When we are calling on a property of an object then we use `.` (Static instance)

But when we are calling a property of an object that is being pointed to then we use `->` (dynamic instance)