All java classes must be a separate java file and the name of the class must match the name of the file.

## Declaring Classes
Class definitions - Two parts:
- Class declaration: `class nameOfClass`
- Class body: contains
	- Constructors: method to initialise new objects
	- Variable declarations: Store data that provide the state
		- Member variables - aka fields
		- Local variables - within a method
		- Parameters - variables required by the method
	- Methods: behaviours of the class.
		- Modifier: public/private/protected `public`
		- Return type: data type to be returned `int`
		- Method name: `squeezeLemons`
		- Parameter list: `(int number, string lemons)`
		- Exception list: 
		- Method body: `{ things to do with lemons }`

### Field Declarations
E.g. `private int variable`
1. **Access modifier**: public or private, controls what classes can access our fields
	1. Private: Only accessible within the class
	2. Public: Visible and accessible from anywhere via the class path.
	3. Protected: Visible and accessible within the class and the related subclasses in other package (Inherited methods and variables)
	4. Default (no key word used): Visible within the class and also throughout the package.
2. Type: data type
3. Name: Variable name

#### Selecting Access Modifiers
When selecting consider their use. Some methods should not be public if they are accessing sensitive information. And some data should be public if they are needed by other methods outside the class and are not sensitive information. 

Also consider if the data is final, and doesn't ever change. In this case it does not need a method to change the value on ly to look it up.

### Types and variable names
All variables must have a type. Use primitive or reference types.

Naming rules:
- Always use camelCase.
- First letter of class name is caps: `ClassName`
- First word of method name should be verb: `setValue()`


## Overloading methods
**Overloading** is when you can have more than one method with the same name as long as they have *different parameter lists*. Different return types will not enable overloading.

## Class Constructors
Can have multiple constructors. If no constructor method given the compiler automatically creates a default one with blank values for all data.

Constructor name is same as class name.

**No argument constructor** creates an object but with pre-set  initial data values set:

Main command:
`ClassName objectName = new ClassName()`

Class constructor method:
```
public ClassName() {
	value1 = 'a';
	value2 = 17;
}
```

Be careful with the access modifier as this may prevent other classes from creating new objects if they don't have access to the constructor method.


## Passing information to a method or constructor

Arguments are the values passed into a method in the place of parameters. The data type of the argument must match that of the parameter, and the order of the parameter.

Parameters names must be unique within that method.

**Shadow**: When the name of the parameter is the same as a variable within the class. Generally not a good idea as this can make the code difficult to read. Generally, only used when the method sets that field.

